---
title: Getting Started with React | Hands-On Cloud Native Application
sidebar: auto
---

# Getting Started with React

This article gives a hands-on tutorial on setting up a React application.

## What is React?

React is a declarative, efficient, and flexible JavaScript library for building user interfaces.
It lets you compose complex UIs from small and isolated pieces of code called “components”.
It was originally created by Jordan Walke, a software engineer at Facebook.
Within just a few years, it has achieved great adoptions among many companies and organizations.

## Why use React?

* Virtual DOM is fast.
* One-way data binding.
* Components hold states only in its internal.

## Essential Knowledge

### Virtual DOM

### JSX

### Component

### Props

### States

### Events

### Hooks

### Functional Programming

## Play Around With React

### Create a New App

`create-react-app` is the official way to setup the boilerplate template for a new React application.

Let's create a new project with the name of `tomat-coffee`.

```bash
$ yarn create react-app tomato-coffee
$ cd tomato-coffee
$ yarn start
```

Once finished, you should now see the directory as below.

```
tomato-coffee
├── README.md
├── node_modules
├── package.json
├── .gitignore
├── public
│   ├── favicon.ico
│   ├── index.html
│   └── manifest.json
└── src
    ├── App.css
    ├── App.js
    ├── App.test.js
    ├── index.css
    ├── index.js
    ├── logo.svg
    └── serviceWorker.js
```

* `README.md` holds the description of the project.
* `node_modules` holds all of the dependencies of the React application.
* `package.json` includes the metadata of the project. The dependencies described in `package.json` can be installed by `yarn install`.
* `.gitignore` claims those should not be included into version control, such as `node_modules`. The reason we don't check in some files are usually that they can be generated by other commands.
* Files in directory `public` are those going to be distributed to user browsers.
* Files in directory `src` are React components, which will be built into `dist` directory.

### Start React App

Runs the app in development mode.

```bash
$ yarn start
```

Open <http://localhost:3000> to view it in the browser.

### Test React App

Run below command in another terminal session.

```bash
$ yarn test
```

You should see all test passed.

### Make the First Change

Leave the `yarn start` process running and let's modify the file `src/App.js` in your favorite editor.

```js{7}
import React, { Component } from 'react';

class App extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <div className="App">
        <p>Hello World</p>
      </div>
    );
  }
}

export default App;
```

You should see the page automatically reloaded in your browser with only text "Hello World".

## Handle Routes

Install `react-router-dom`.

```bash
$ yarn add react-router-dom
```

Import the router.

<<< @/hands-on-cloud-native/src/react/app-setup-router.js{2-16}

### Setup 404 Page

Create a `NotFound` component.

<<< @//hands-on-cloud-native/src/react/app-setup-router-404.js{2,10-14,18,20,21}

By browsing to the page <http://127.0.0.1:3000/any>, or replacing `any` to any path, you should see "Not Found" on the page.
By browsing to the page <http://127.0.0.1:3000>, you should see "Hello World" on the page!

### Setup App Page

So far, we have two pages. Let's move them into a sub-directory for better organization. Create directory `src/pages` before saving below two files `src/pages/not-found.js` and `src/pages/home.js`.

```js
// src/pages/not-found.js
import React from 'react';

export default () => (
  <div className="App">
    <p>Not Found</p>
  </div>
)
```

```js
// src/pages/home.js
import React from 'react';

export default () => (
  <div className="App">
    <p>Hello World</p>
  </div>
);
```

Finally, let's import the two components into `src/App.js`.

<<< @//hands-on-cloud-native/src/react/app-setup-router-cleanup.js{4,5}

## References

facebook/create-react-app, github.com, <https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app>

React (JavaScript Library), en.wikipedia.org, <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/React_(JavaScript_library)>

Pomodoro Technique, en.wikipedia.org, <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pomodoro_Technique>